Stabilize spec 3.2.0 (#1103)
coreos/ignition: docs/migrating-configs.md

1. TOC
{:toc}

## From Version 3.1.0 to 3.2.0

There are not any breaking changes between versions 3.1.0 and 3.2.0 of the configuration specification. Any valid 3.1.0 configuration can be updated to a 3.2.0 configuration by simply changing the version string in the config.

The following is a list of notable new features, deprecations, and changes.

### Partition resizing

The `partition` section gained a new `resize` field. When true, Ignition will resize an existing partition if it matches the config in all respects except the partition size.

> ```json

Reviewer: These all need the `<!-- ignition -->` header line so CI will test them.

{
  "ignition": { "version": "3.2.0" },
  "storage": {
    "disks": [{
      "device": "/dev/sda",
      "partitions": [{
        "label": "root",
        "sizeMiB": 16384,

>         "resize": "true"

Reviewer: It's a boolean, not a string.

      }]
    }]
  }
}
```

> ### LUKS

Reviewer: `LUKS encrypted storage`?

> Ignition now supports creating LUKS2 devices. Both key-file based & Tang/TPM2 (via clevis) devices can be created. If a key-file is not specified for a device one will be generated.

Reviewer: Not sure if this is 100% correct, but:

```suggestion
Ignition now supports creating LUKS2 encrypted storage volumes. Volumes can be configured to allow unlocking with any combination of a TPM2 device via Clevis, network Tang servers via Clevis, and static key files. Alternatively, the Clevis configuration can be manually specified with a custom PIN. If a key file is not specified for a device, an ephemeral one will be created.
```

```json
{
  "ignition": {"version": "3.2.0"},
  "storage": {
    "luks": [{
      "name": "data",
      "device": "/dev/sdb",
      "keyFile": {

>         "source": "data:,yourkeyhere"

Reviewer: Let's make `yourkeyhere` louder, please.

      }

>     }],

Reviewer: Can we add additional volumes giving examples of TPM and Tang usage?

    "filesystems": [{
      "path": "/var/lib/data",
      "device": "/dev/disk/by-id/dm-name-data",
      "format": "ext4",
      "label": "DATA"
    }]
  },
  "systemd": {
    "units": [{
      "name": "var-lib-data.mount",
      "enabled": true,
      "contents": "[Mount]\nWhat=/dev/disk/by-label/DATA\nWhere=/var/lib/data\nType=ext4\n\n[Install]\nWantedBy=local-fs.target"
    }]
  }
}
```

### User/group deletion

> The `passwd` `users` & `groups` sections have a new field `shouldExist`. If specified and false, Ignition will delete the specified user or group if it exists.

Reviewer: s/&/and/

  }
}
```

> ## From Version 3.1.0 to 3.2.0

Reviewer: This section should be added at the top of the doc.

There are not any breaking changes between versions 3.1.0 and 3.2.0 of the configuration specification. Any valid 3.1.0 configuration can be updated to a 3.2.0 configuration by simply changing the version string in the config.

The following is a list of notable new features, deprecations, and changes.

> ### Partition Resizing

Reviewer: We don't use title case for these headings.

> The `partition` section gained a new `resize` field. When specified Ignition will resize an existing partition if it matches the config in all respects except the partition size. Refer to the [operator-notes][operator-notes] for more information.

Reviewer: "When `true`,"
`Refer to the [operator notes]`.  But is there anything in the operator notes that we haven't just said here?  We could just drop the last sentence.

```json
{
  "ignition": { "version": "3.2.0" },
  "storage": {
    "disks": [{
      "device": "/dev/sda",
      "partitions": [{
        "label": "root",
        "sizeMiB": 16384,
        "resize": "true"
      }]
    }]
  }
}
```

### LUKS

> Ignition now supports creating LUKS2 devices. Refer to the [operator-notes][operator-notes] for more information.

Reviewer: As inconvenient as it is, we generally re-explain features here, without referring users to external docs.

Author: I've re-worded a selection of the operator notes that are relevant to the user and dropped the external reference.

```json
{
  "ignition": {"version": "3.2.0"},
  "storage": {
    "luks": [{
      "name": "data",
      "device": "/dev/sdb"

>     }],

Reviewer: Won't this config create an ephemeral encrypted volume?  That's not a common operation, and since the data won't survive a reboot, we probably shouldn't give it as the canonical example of how to use this feature.

    "filesystems": [{
      "path": "/var/lib/data",
      "device": "/dev/disk/by-id/dm-name-data",
      "format": "ext4",
      "label": "DATA"
    }]
  },
  "systemd": {
    "units": [{
      "name": "var-lib-data.mount",
      "enabled": true,
      "contents": "[Mount]\nWhat=/dev/disk/by-label/DATA\nWhere=/var/lib/data\nType=ext4\n\n[Install]\nWantedBy=local-fs.target"
    }]
  }
}
```

> ### User/Group deletion

Reviewer: Lowercase G.

> The `passwd.users` & `passwd.groups` sections have a new field `shouldExist`. If false, Ignition will delete the specified user or group if it exists.

Reviewer: I don't think we use the dotted notation anywhere else in this doc.  "The `passwd` `users` and `groups` sections"?

Let's say `If specified and false` to clarify that the default is true.

```json
{
  "ignition": { "version": "3.2.0" },
  "passwd": {
    "users": [{
      "name": "core",
      "shouldExist": false
    }],
    "groups": [{
      "name": "core",
      "shouldExist": false
    }]
  }
}
```

### GCS URL Support

> The sections which allow fetching a remote URL now accept GCS (`gs://` scheme) URLs in the `source` field.

Reviewer: nit: Maybe drop `scheme`?
